I have been an avid reader my entire life, and I have a variety of book preferences in different subjects, fiction and non-fiction alike. However, in adult years, people usually let this passion of theirs fade away into oblivion, instead devoting their time to other endeavours. It is no surprise that few adults read on a regular basis, regardless of book format (we’re counting e-books and audio-books as well!). But I am not going to write about the impact of social media on our attention span, nor am I going to judge from my nerdy high horse. I will, however, try to convince you that in our profession it is necessary for people to read. A lot. I also have some book recommendations for programmers out there, and I hope you’ll give them a shot.

生活中我是一个嗜书如命的人，不管是小说还是非小说，不同类型的书我都会收藏几本。不过，人在成年之后，读书的热情会逐渐消退，把精力投入到其他事物上。不足为奇的是，不论任何形式的书（包括电子书和有声读物），几乎没有成年人能坚持定期阅读。我既不打算谈论社交媒体如何转移了我们的注意力，也不打算站在道德高地批判一番。我只想传达一个观点：阅读对一个人的职业生涯至关重要。我也有一些好书推荐给同为程序员的你们，希望你们能试着读一读。

Here at Algotech Solutions we have recently started to invest in our very own library of (mostly) technical books. Some of these books have been a godsend for us, since we expanded our horizons in a very exciting fashion. Each book contributes in its own way to our development, and I believe that a good programmer must be well read in the following topics:

我们最近在Algotech Solutions投资建设了图书馆，其中大多都是技术书籍。有些书简直就是上帝的恩赐，它们帮助我们开拓了视野。每本书都对开发有所助益，我认为优秀的程序员需要认真阅读关于以下几个主题的书籍：

Biographies for programmers
给程序员的传记

Biographies and, of course, autobiographies can be a great source of inspiration for professional programmers, especially for those having the ambition to innovate. One of the most important features of human kind is that they do not need to re-live the same stories over and over again. They can analyse others’ perspectives, learn from their successes and failures, expand on the knowledge of their peers.

传记或是自传是程序员（尤其那些追求创新的程序员）的灵感源泉。人类最重要的特点之一就是不必事事都亲力亲为，他们从他人的人生经历的成功或失败中吸取经验和教训，从而拓展它们的知识。

A high number of inspirational figures are notable as true examples, which makes for great biographies. Among the recommendations:
科技大佬们的人生经历构成了一部部鲜活的传记。以下是我推荐的传记：

“Steve Jobs” (by Walter Isaacson), the “official” biography of Apple’s founder. Walter Isaacson is a phenomenal biography writer, which probably explains why Jobs approached him.
《Steve Jobs | 史蒂夫·乔布斯传》（作者：Walter Isaacson），苹果创始人的“官方”传记。Walter Isaacson是著名的传记作家，这也是乔布斯选择他的原因。

“Losing My Virginity” (an autobiography by Richard Branson). The founder of the Virgin group is a very interesting character, with a wonderful personality. Fans might also appreciate Branson’s other books, since he leaves his characteristic mark on all his work.
《Losing My Virginity》（Richard Branson 的自传），维珍集团创始人 Richard Branson 是一个高尚风趣的人。粉丝们也喜爱 Branson 写的其他书，因为每本书都体现了其人格魅力。

“Elon Musk” (by Ashlee Vance). The biography of the well-known innovator and entrepreneur is a must read for those who need inspiration. Elon Musk’s young-age hardship and his continuous strive to change the world will undoubtedly leave a mark on you.
《Elon Musk | 埃隆·马斯克传》（作者：Ashlee Vance）。著名创新者和企业家的传记对需要灵感的人来说是必读之物。Elon Musk 年轻时经历的艰辛和他不断努力改变世界的壮举无疑会给你留下深刻印象。

Bonus: “I am Zlatan Ibrahimovic” (by David Lagercrantz and Zlatan Ibrahimovic). Although this book doesn’t touch technology-related subjects, as do the other recommendations here, you will absolutely love this book if you are one of those “rock-star/ninja” programmers. Even if you’re on the shy and introverted side, you can learn about appreciating your self-worth from the one and only Zlatan.
附：《I am Zlatan Ibrahimovic | 伊布自传》（作者：David Lagercrantz 和 Zlatan Ibrahimovic）虽然这本书和其他传记一样都没有涉及技术相关的主题，但如果你是那些“摇滚明星/忍者”类型的程序员，你绝对会喜欢这本书。即使你性格羞涩内向，你依然可以从 Zlatan 身上学会欣赏自身的价值。

Programming… well, programming books for programmers
至于编程嘛...好吧，给程序员的编程书籍

The most difficult part about reading a good technical book is choosing it. Many a times there’s intricate coursework and/or swamp-like text, which makes you dread ever starting reading on that subject. But once in a while, a really good technical book comes along. It makes the subject easy to understand and apply, it is easy to read and… we’ll probably call it “The [subject] Bible” at some point.
读技术书籍最难的部分在于如何选择。有时，晦涩难懂的理论或毫无生气的文字会让你对相关技术望而却步。但是精彩的技术书籍却能让你沉浸其中。它让书中主题易于理解和应用，很容易就能读懂。我们通常称之为“某某圣经”。

A problematic issue with technical books (unfortunately not restricted to programming), is that many a times you can’t tell hype apart from quality. Therefore, remember to always read the reviews of a technical book, and consider the number of ratings as well. A good technical book should have a high number of readers and a high average review score. For a pleasant experience, choose wisely and only after much considerations. Or, why not, have a pick from our recommendations:
技术书籍（当然不仅仅局限于编程方面的书籍）有一个问题在于，你很难区分它出名是炒作还是自身质量高所造成的。因此，记住要认真阅读一本技术书籍的评论，同时也考虑书的评分。好的技术书籍常常有可观的读者和评分。为了愉悦的读书经历，请谨慎的选择，或者你也可以从我们的推荐书籍中选取：

The Algorithms Bible: “Introduction to Algorithms” (by Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest and Clifford Stein)
算法圣经：《Introduction to Algorithms | 算法导论》（作者：Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest and Clifford Stein）

The Artificial Intelligence Bible: “Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach” (by Stuart Russel and Peter Norvig). Often called AIMA, and part of many university curricula.
人工智能圣经：《Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach | 人工智能：一种现代的方法》（作者：Stuart Russel 和 Peter Norvig）通常称为AIMA，是许多大学的计算机课程教材之一。

The work ethics Bible: “The Clean Coder” (by Robert C. Martin). If I’d have to recommend just one book for programmers world-wide, I would recommend this book. It contains a lot of valuable information and tips for a balanced programming work life and true professionalism.
职业素养圣经：《The Clean Coder | 程序员的职业素养》如果只给全世界的程序员推荐一本书，我会推荐这本。它包含了许多有价值的信息，平衡工作和生活的建议，以及真正的职业素养。

The Design Patterns Bible: “Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software” (by Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson, John Vlissides, also known as the Gang of Four or GoF).
设计模式圣经：《Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software | 设计模式:可复用面向对象软件的基础》  （作者：Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson, John Vlissides）这几位作者通常被称为四人组或 GoF。

The Enterprise Patterns Bible: “Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture” (by Martin Fowler et al.). This one in case the previous one already seems simple.
企业模式圣经：《Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture | 企业应用架构模式》（作者：Martin Fowler 等）如果觉得上一本不难就看看这本吧。

Social studies books for programmers
给程序员的社会学书籍

It took me a while to come up with an umbrella term large enough to encompass psychology, economics, history and self-development. Recently there has a been an explosion of books in these subjects, but with simple, lay-person language. There are many resasons why these books are so popular, one of which is that you have the opportunity to learn about humans without going through the mistakes yourselves. As you might recall, I’ve said this before, with biographies. Now, it’s just the scale that differs. Here are our “gateway to social studies for programmers” picks:
我费尽心思才想出“社会学”这一统称，它涵盖了心理学，经济学，历史和自我发展。近来这些主题的书籍数量激增，但质量一般，门外汉居多。这些书如此受欢迎是有许多原因的，其中之一就是你可以从中学习经验教训而不用蹈其覆辙。你可能记得我曾在传记那一节说过上述观点，这里只是领域不同。下面是我们推荐给程序员的社会学科的书籍：

“David and Goliath: Underdogs, Misfits, and the Art of Battling Giants” (by Malcolm Gladwell). This book argues that many of the things we consider disadvantages are in fact advantages. Gladwell’s writes in a very light and easy to understand tone, with lots of real-life examples. It is a must read for start-up owners!
《David and Goliath: Underdogs, Misfits, and the Art of Battling Giants》（作者：Malcolm Gladwell）书中作者认为，许多我们自认为的劣势恰恰却是我们的优势。作者用浅显易懂的语言表达了其观点，并以现实生活中的例子予以举证。它是创业者的必读书籍！

“Predictably Irrational: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions” (by Dan Ariely). Reading this, you will get insight on how we make decisions, and how our rationality is sometimes not part of the equation.
《Predictably Irrational: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions | 怪诞行为学:可预测的非理性》（作者：Dan Ariely）读了这本书，你会了解人们如何下决策并且明白理性并非等式。

“The Undercover Economist” (by Tim Harford). Do you think that each action (even the ones generally thought of as non-economics related) happen in isolation? Tim Harford will convince you of the opposite. In his economics-driven world, everything is interconnected in a game of strategy and negotiation. Game Theory aficionados will surely click with this book.
《The Undercover Economist | 卧底经济学》（作者：Tim Harford）你曾想过每个行为（即使是那些被认为与经济学无关的行为）都是孤立的吗？Tim Harford 会说服你反对这一观点，在他经济主导的世界观中，任何行为都是一场决策与妥协的游戏，彼此息息相关。游戏理论爱好者一定会和这本书产生共鸣。

“The Third Chimpanzee” (by Jared Diamond). A book on the evolution of early humans, it goes into much detail regarding our societies, and the biological reasons of our behaviours. What I like most about Jared Diamond is his macro-view on things. Just like in his other book, “Guns, Germs and Steel”, another of my favourites, he does not go into irrelevant minor details, but rather has a very top-down approach of complex topics.
《The Third Chimpanzee | 第三种黑猩猩》（作者：Jared Diamond）这是一本关于人类早期进化的书籍，书中详细阐述了社会学和人类行为的生物学动机。我最欣赏贾 Jared Diamond 的一点是其对于事物的大局观。就比如他另一本书，也是我的最爱：《枪炮、病菌与钢铁》，书中并没有去抠不相关的细枝末节，而是用自上而下的方法阐述错综复杂的主题。

Science fiction books for programmers
给程序员的科幻小说

Robert C. Martin (also known as “Uncle Bob”), one of the best-known software engineers and authors world-wide, stated in his book “The Clean Coder” that often he feels the need for creative input such as books and movies, to support his creative output of qualitative code. His personal preference? You guessed it. Science Fiction.
Robert C. Martin（人称“Bob大叔”），全世界最出名的软件工程师和作家之一，他在其著作《程序员的职业素养》中提到，他需要接收例如书籍和电影等创造性的输入，才能支撑他输出富有创造性的高质量代码。他的个人爱好？你猜对了：科幻小说。

A good Science Fiction book makes you wonder. It makes you think about ethical dilemmas and future possibilities. It is also a subject that “sits well” with programmers, since future technology is something we often think about. I often feel defensive about this particular area of fiction, mostly because many people start off with “if it’s those robots things, I don’t like them”, while I generally enourage people to try a few times before they make up their mind. Some of the best Science Fiction books I’ve ever read are:
出色的科幻小说会令你拍案惊奇，会让你思考道德困境以及变换莫测的未来，是一类很“适合”程序员的书，因为程序员也常常思考未来的技术。推荐这种小说常常让我感到被冒犯，因为通常我鼓励人们读读看再下结论时，他们却开口抱怨“如果就是机器人之类的话，我并不感兴趣”。以下是我读过最棒的科幻小说：

“The Naked Sun” (by Isaac Asimov). In fact, you can take up any of Asimov’s books and you’ll probably be satisfied.
《The Naked Sun | 赤裸的太阳》（作者：Isaac Asimov）。其实，你随便挑一本 Asimov 的书，都能让你满意。

“Ender’s Game” (by Orson Scott Card). A Harry Potter-esque story of a special boy, student in a space war academy, but with a very interesting twist at the end. Shhh, spoilers!
《Ender’s Game | 安德的游戏》（作者：Orson Scott Card）哈利波特式的小说，讲述了一个太空战斗学校的神童学生的故事，故事结尾却是有趣的反转。嘘，别剧透！

“The Old Man’s War” (by John Scalzi). Set in a future where old people can sign up for an interplanetary defense army, this book’s twist will blow your mind. Shall I give you a small hint? Well, you should firstly ask yourselves: “How can 75-year olds fight space wars?”
《The Old Man’s War | 暮年战士》（作者：John Scalzi）本书情节一波三折，会让你心醉神迷。需要提示吗？好吧，你可以先问问自己：“75岁的老头怎么打太空战？”

“1984” (by George Orwell). This is a classic. Actually, we might say this book invented the dystopia genre itself, with its bleak version of a future where every action is under complete surveillance. Not only is the premise interesting, but the narrative is great itself.
《1984》（作者：George Orwell）经典读物之一，书中描写了在悲惨的未来世界，人们的一举一动都在严密监控之下，可以说是这本书开创了反乌托邦流派。不仅书中假设的前提有趣，而且本身的叙述手法也很出色。

So what do you think? Let us know in the comments below if you think other genres need to be represented here. Have you read these books? Keep us posted with your progress and we would love to give you more recommendations in the future. Happy reading!
怎么样？如果你想要在这里展示其他类型书籍，请在评论中告之我们。你读完以上的书单了吗？把读书进度告诉我们，我们非常乐意为你提供更多的建议。享受阅读吧！
